In-class group work 10 MAR 2026
Present: Connor White, Dave Hulme
Absent: Jacob Brown

Things to do:

  * We discussed some ways to handle all the dataframes, csv's, etc. I'm going to contradict myself and change it up. If that seems like a problem, please let me know. I had forgotten some things about what the structure looked like, but now that I see it, I think this makes more sense.
  * My current thinking looks like this:
    (1) We have a file in src called data_cleaning.py. This creates df_A and df_B. As of right now I propose that we leave these alone. [OPTIONAL: if you want, we can remove the columns we aren't using. But we would have to update things downstream if we do that.]
    (2) #67 - We have a file in src called df_A to df_X.py. I propose that the following changes be made:
        (a) The name be changed to data_processing.py
        (b) The output be changed from df_X.csv to df_2010.csv
        (c) The section from sprint04c.py (also in src) that starts with this comment "Load dataset df_B into df_2020 for transformations" be copied into data_processing.py. You could also just copy what's currently there and modify it so in addition to doing
            df_A --> df_2010 it also does df_B --> df_2020, since that's all I really did. Either way it needs to follow the same logic AND output to df_2020.csv (which mine does NOT do since I was just bridging the gap to get my model to work).
        (d) The outputs this produces (should be df_2010.csv and df_2020.csv) need to be uploaded to the server. (df_X, which is already on there, can just be renamed if you want, I think it's identical)
        (e) Once the new .csv files are on the server, sprint04c.py (which is just a working title, we can certainly change that to something else) needs to be updated to load those into df_2010 and df_2020 directly.
            (Right now, df_2010 is coming from df_X.csv, so once that's renamed, you just have to point it to df_2010.csv. But df_2020 is using that code block, which can just be eliminated in favor of loading it directly.)
    (3) #68 - We can make an archive folder in src and put in df_A to df_X.py, sprint04b.py, and, assuming we make a new .py for the dashboard--we might as well call it dashboard.py--we can put sprint04c.py in there as well.
    (4) #69 - We need a new .csv that I think we could call df_county.csv. This would include all of the stuff on the dashboard that isn't in df_2010 or df_2020, and we can load it into df_county. That includes: 2010 population; 2020 population; state name; county name; FIPS (to join)
    (5) #63 - Once that is done and uploaded onto the server, our new dashboard.py can load it in directly instead of having to process all of that information. I think in my sprint04c.py it maybe starts with "# normalize fips" and goes down to where it gets combined into
        "# build df_app as overall singular df". All that can be moved to county.py (or whatever that's called that puts together df_county.csv) and then the merge can be updated accordingly. OPTIONAL: You could build the "# build dropdown label" column into df_county.csv as well.
    (5) All this should hopefully serve to improve the speed of our dashboard by processing everything in advance, since none of this stuff is dynamic anyhow.
    (6) #61 - dashboard.py needs to be updated to use the model from our model folder (we have a couple in there, and I can't remember which one is the most current). Right now I think maybe everything from "1) Fit model on 2010 -> 2020" on down in that section is building the model.
        I'm really hoping this is the biggest drag on our dashboard and that once we pull it in directly it's a LOT faster.
    (7) #65 - dashboard.py needs to be updated to where when you choose "5 nearest neighbors" or whatever that it does that quantity PLUS ONE because right now it just does "4 nearest neighbors plus selected county". So right now it shows you the quantity that you pick,
        but that includes the county that is selected, and that leaves us one short (prof caught this).
    (8) #66 - We're hoping to have a map display that highlights the state of the selected county (at a minimum). Ideally it do everything on a county level, and gray out the ones we don't have available (i.e., rural counties), and highlight the county. We'll see if
        there's a tool already available for those options. We might need to think about somehow enhancing, zooming in, whatever we can get away with, because some counties are small. We could maybe point an arrow but again, I'm not sure what's available.

    I'm going to continue working on #64 (csv / join visualization). I will plan on following the outline above for that, unless you think we need something different.
